We are happy to continue with the annual meeting program.
We now have with us, Brother Len Myers, a helper to the writing committee, who will conduct
an interview with wives of branch committee members in the United States.
Brother Myers, please.
The accounts of faithful women are found throughout the Bible.
One faithful Christian sister is mentioned by the Apostle Paul at Romans chapter 16, verses
1 and 2.
Mary mentions Phoebe, who proved herself to be a defender of many, including Paul.
Today we're blessed to be able to get to know faithful Christian sisters who share something
unique.
All of them are wives of brothers who serve as members of the United States branch committee.
Sister Snyder, we'd like to get to know more about you.
Can you please first tell us how you got the truth?
I was introduced to the truth by my parents, and Jehovah used the example of my sister
and the nurturing love of older ones and the congregations to draw me to him.
Then how did you start in the full-time ministry and then into Bethel service?
Well, it was a bit of a test when I was in my late teens, a friend of mine died, and
I couldn't understand why Jehovah would allow this to happen to such a kind person.
So an elderly pioneer sister encouraged me to do deeper research on the issue of universal
sovereignty, and this not only comforted me, but it caused me to re-evaluate my priorities
and to see if I truly believed Jehovah would take care of me if I really put him first.
So I started pioneering, put college on hold, and it wasn't long before I was broke and
the rent was coming due.
And so the next meeting, I quietly put my last $50 in the contribution box and thought,
what's it?
It doesn't work.
I'm going back to school.
But that evening, I learned that Matthew 633 is undeniably true.
Jehovah surprised me and cared for all my needs from the most unlikely sources, and
he hasn't stopped caring for me since.
And then you joined Troy in Bethel Service later on, right?
Now, what assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I've enjoyed housekeeping, really enjoyed a lot of assignments within transportation department,
and I was one of thousands who worked on the Warwick and Tuxedo construction projects.
Now, as the wife of a branch committee member, you have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Well, like most wives of good shepherds, I would love to have more time with my husband.
That's understandable.
So what practical things have you done to deal with that challenge?
Well, prayer, study, and meditation has reminded me that we're at spiritual war.
And we're at war, our priorities have to change.
So I can't long for ideal circumstances, although they're coming quickly.
Right now, it's about advancing pure worship.
And while it's important to maintain a healthy and close relationship with Troy, my primary
joy should be in Jehovah.
And then second, is remembering the sacrifices that were made for me.
Of course, Jehovah gave up 33 years with his best friend for me.
And also, there were sisters when I was single and pioneering who would invite me over
for lots of meals, go out and serve us.
They would even send their husband out and freeze and cold dark nights to fix my car,
which broke down often.
So I'm grateful.
And the only, the main way I can show this appreciation is to imitate their examples.
Now with challenges come blessings.
What's one blessing you enjoy as the wife of a branch committee member?
Most peace that comes from having complete confidence in how Jehovah directs and blesses
the decisions his organization makes through the governing body.
If I were not married to a branch committee member, I may never have known just how much
the brothers rely on Jehovah spirit and how much time they spend long periods of time
in prayer and how much they deeply, deeply love the friends.
So I'm embarrassed about how much worrying I've done in the past about these things.
But now it's a lot easier to just be supportive and listen obey and be blessed.
Very nice.
Now as you look back on your rich spiritual life in Jehovah's service, is there an experience
you can share with us?
We were visiting a small branch in a developing country that had been ravaged by decades
of civil war.
I'd never seen poverty like that before.
And one evening, I went into the dining room to gather dinner for us.
But before getting the dinner, I stopped and talked to a lovely young brother.
At one point, I turned around and noticed that all the food had been taken.
And I said, there's no more food.
Now this young brother hadn't eaten either, but he just shrugged and said, it's just hunger
and continued to zealously talking about his assignment.
Now this brother was a commuter, very thin, and so it was likely that he might not eat
that night or maybe even the next morning.
But the way his face glowed when he talked about his assignment, it was clear that his
joy was not based on anything physical or the lack of anything physical.
So I really treasure this lesson because it's made me want to more appreciate what I
do have currently and to imitate his example and focusing on what's truly important.
And I think you told me that he did get some food that night, so we're happy about that.
Thanks for letting us to get to know you and for sharing that experience.
Now we'd like to get to know Sister Sherelle George's.
Sister George's, can you tell us how you got the truth?
When I was 11, my mother started to study.
Another sister studied with my two sisters and myself out of the book from Paradise Lost
to Paradise Regained.
Two years later, on November 13, 1971, my mother, my oldest sister and myself were baptized.
How did you start in the full-time ministry?
As teenagers, a pioneer couple assisted us when we temporary or vacation pioneered as
it was called then.
It led me to want to regular pioneer after high school.
However, after graduating, I started working full-time.
It was at a district convention where the point was made, if you're not pioneering,
tell Jehovah why.
Well, I really didn't have a good reason.
So I started making plans to work part-time.
It was in September of 1980 when I realized my goal of regular pioneering.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
While pioneering, I had the opportunity to assist with the Brooklyn Assembly Hall renovation
project on Thursdays.
It was one Thursday I learned of an announcement made at Bethel.
Sisters could now commute.
So after a while, I turned in my application and started commuting in November of 1987.
But before commuting, I had met Luther.
We started to court and then later we were married and accepted as a couple to Bethel.
And what assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
While commuting, I worked in a dry cleaning department and continued there after marriage.
For a short time, I worked with the Brooklyn Warehouse Department.
Then Luther and I received a surprise assignment.
We were asked to assist at the Jamaica branch starting in March of 1995.
There I worked in alterations, laundry, kitchen, housekeeping, shipping, and Bethel office.
Then in 2014, the Jamaica branch merged with the United States branch.
We were invited to serve back in the United States, first at Patterson, where I worked
in audio video services and now at Wal-Kill in service department.
Now you two have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Many of the assignments that Luther has involves traveling.
So that means that we're away from our congregation sometimes for weeks.
It also means that we're not able to get back to our return visits and Bible studies on a weekly basis.
So what practical things have you done to deal with that challenge?
We found it helpful to let the friends know whenever we would be away.
Many times we would receive a text from them, just saying hi, checking on you,
hope you're doing well.
This really helped us to stay connected.
What else we did was to invite publishers to go with us on our return visits and Bible studies.
This way, whenever we were away, they could keep the interest going.
That's a good idea.
What good habits did you form early in life that help you now as you support your husband?
Growing up, my mother taught us to be content and to share whatever we had.
One watched our articles stated,
true contentment comes from loving and being loved.
We grew up in a loving family and then learning about Jehovah and his love as I grew older
helped me to find contentment in Jehovah's service.
So whatever assignment I have, I tried to be content and view any differences as an opportunity
for me to learn about the various aspects, unique personalities and qualities of my brothers and sisters.
Now, as you look back on your rich spiritual life, is there a memory you can share with us?
Proverbs 10-22 says,
the blessings of Jehovah, that is what makes one rich.
I feel as if I have been enriched in so many ways with so many memories.
One memory is being able to assist in the form of Jamaica branch for over 19 years.
Working together with the brothers was such a unique privilege and really encouraging.
To see the brothers exhibit their faith in loyalty in Jehovah despite various challenging circumstances
was a true encouragement for us.
We made many friends and add assignment and we continue to keep in touch to this day.
That is a nice memory. Thanks for sharing that with us.
Finally, we'd like to talk to Sister Sonny Chiki.
Sister Chiki, can you tell us how you got the truth and then entered the full-time ministry?
My mother raised me and my two brothers to serve Jehovah.
It was difficult for her because my father left the truth and our family when we were very young,
but she said a very good example for us.
And then because of the encouragement of young pioneers in our congregation,
I began regular pioneering in the Pasadena, California congregation after I graduated from high school in 1962.
And how did that lead to Bethel's service?
I served in a few other areas where the need was great in New Mexico,
Northern California, a special pioneer of Simon and Iowa,
and then a small congregation in Mississippi.
Tom was a Brooklyn Bethelite and he came down to Mississippi to dedicate a kingdom hall.
In May 1981, we met seven months later, we were married,
and we were accepted to serve as a couple at Bethel.
Nice. What assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I was a housekeeper for my first three years.
Now I've been in Laundry for 35 years.
I did have a part-time assignment in grounds maintenance for a while,
but now I joyfully serve full-time in the walk-yo laundry.
Now you two have a demanding schedule. Can you explain one challenge?
Meeting so many wonderful friends in our assignments, I like to keep in touch with them,
but time is so limited, so I feel that that can be overwhelming at times.
So what practical thing have you done to deal with that challenge?
Well, I love to write cards and send letters,
so that's how I deal with this and to be able to keep in touch with my friends,
and that really helps a lot.
So what has helped you to be balanced despite your busy schedule?
I love the March 2016 broadcast that stressed three things.
First is count your blessings.
We are part of an amazing organization that is caring on the most meaningful work
of preaching and teaching.
Second is look at the big picture.
When I feel stressed out, I try to put things in the right perspective,
Jehovah Sovereignty first, foremost, and not focusing on myself,
and that helps me to keep calm.
And third was get enough rest.
Without enough rest, I can't think straight and even ordinary activities
in my routine seem overwhelming or too much.
That's very practical.
Now, is there a particular experience you'd like to share with us?
When I was special pioneering in Iowa,
I married a brother who was a pioneer and then became an elder,
and so I continued in the congregation as a regular pioneer.
After several years, he became an apostate,
and he tried to encourage me to go with him, but I refused.
The elders made great efforts to help him to recover,
but he was persistent in carrying out his course.
So in time, he separated from me and ended the marriage.
But I felt Jehovah's support in so many ways.
One in particular was a couple who would call me often,
and they would have me to their home,
and they never wanted me to feel alone.
Then another blessing came later when I moved to Mississippi,
and I became partners with a sister who was 20 years older than me.
She had been in the seventh class of Gilead,
and she had been special pioneering for 30 years.
So you can imagine she was a tremendous help to me.
More blessings came later when I married Tom,
and began serving at Bethel.
So feeling Jehovah's support at a difficult time
and experiencing his blessings is unforgettable.
Sister Chikki, thank you so much for sharing that experience with us.
In the introduction, we referenced the example of Phoebe,
that faithful Christian sister.
Interestingly, Archingdom's song, number 137,
entitled Faithful Women Christian Sisters,
is based on the description of Phoebe at Romans 16-2.
The lyrics of that song remind us that our Christian sisters show a faithful spirit we all can imitate.
And that's true of the sisters we interviewed today.
The song concludes with the words,
Christian sisters,
May Jehovah keep you firm in your conviction.
Your prize is drawing near.
How we appreciate the example set by all of our faithful Christian sisters.
Thank you, brother Myers.
We thank you sisters as well.
There are so many faithful wives around the world
who support their husbands who are putting Kingdom Mentors first.
We thank you and pray for all of you.
Now we have the pleasure of hearing from another member of the governing body
for the Garrett Loosh.
He will speak on the subject, we do not give up.
For the Loosh, we look forward to your discussion.
Some of us have been in the truth for 40 years,
50 years, 60 years, or more.
During our life, we may have been confronted with various tests or challenges.
Still, we did not and we do not give up the truth
and our precious relationship with our Heavenly Father.
Also, we do not give up preaching the Word of God.
Second Corinthians chapter 4, 16 is the theme scripture I've selected for this talk.
Please locate that with me.
Second Corinthians 4, 16.
It says, therefore, we do not give up.
But even if the man we are outside is wasting away,
certainly the man we are inside is being renewed from day to day.
As it said, we do not give up.
And we do not give in when it comes to temptations.
First Peter 3, 6, encourages us to not give in to fear.
Deuteronomy 13, 6 tells the Israelites that when a false prophet becomes active,
you must not give in to him or listen to him.
In the sermon on the Mount, according to an alternate rendering,
Jesus told his listeners to pray to Jehovah
not allow us to give in to temptation.
On one occasion, Peter encouraged others,
quote, first Peter 3, 6,
do not give in to fear.
We do give ear when somebody gives us good counsel.
We give serious thought when somebody wants to help us.
We give comfort to those in need.
In the first century, Paul gave comfort to the congregation in Corinth.
Please find second Corinthians 4, 1.
We can read together and it says there.
Therefore, since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us, we do not give up.
So who were the we?
The anointed.
Second Corinthians 3, verse 3,
tells the Corinthians,
there was the words of Paul,
that they are like a letter of Christ written by him and his friends as ministers,
inscribed with the spirit of our living God.
The Apostle Daniel, verse 5, humbly acknowledges that the fact that he and the
Corinthians were qualified came from God and in verse 6,
that he has adequately qualified Christians to be ministers of a new covenant.
What did Paul refer to when he said in verse 1,
since we have this ministry?
He referred to the ministry of that new covenant of which he was just talking about.
Please follow the reading of 2nd Corinthians chapter 3, verses 5 and 6,
not that we ourselves are adequately qualified to consider that anything comes from us,
but our being adequately qualified comes from God, who has indeed adequately qualified us to be
ministers of a new covenant, not of a written code but of spirit.
In 2nd Corinthians 3, 18, he says,
and all of us, while we reflect like mirrors the glory of Jehovah.
Well, who did he refer to when he wrote all of us? He meant all of the anointed.
In chapter 4, verse 1, he says,
therefore, since we have this ministry through the mercy that was shown us,
the expression, therefore, refers back to the reason and motivation for the anointed, not to give up.
In chapter 3, verse 18, he refers to the anointed as being transformed from one degree of glory to another.
Calminating in the glory they receive when entering heaven.
Since the anointed are progressing from glory to glory until going to heaven,
they have a strong motivation not to give up, but endure since there's such a precious price
or reward ahead of them. Understandably, Paul said in chapter 4, verse 1,
therefore, we do not give up. Also in 2nd Corinthians 4, 16, Paul wrote,
therefore, we do not give up. In the third chapter, Paul contrasts the old covenant that was
stripped of glory with the new covenant that would, like verse 10 and 11, says,
Excel with greater glory, a glory that would remain.
And 2nd Corinthians 3, 12, says,
since we have such a hope, what hope? The heavenly hope. Did you note the similarity with
chapter 4, verse 1? It said, since we have this ministry, what ministry was Paul referring to,
was he referring to field ministry in a general sense? No. He referred to the ministry of the new
covenant. In chapter 3, verse 7, he then calls the ministry of the new covenant a treasure.
Since we have this treasure, he said, not just any treasure.
It was a great incentive for the anointed in the first century to not give up in view of this
treasure of the new covenant that involves progressive glory. Paul wrote, therefore, we do not give
up. Also, the context of the next verses shows that Paul was writing about the heavenly calling
that the new covenant made possible. What Paul wrote is a strong incentive for anointed today
to not give up. What about the great crowd of other sheep? Paul did not have the great crowd in
mind when he wrote the words of 2nd Corinthians, chapter 3 and 4. In the introduction to his letter,
he referred to, quote, all the holy ones. In 2nd Corinthians 1, 21 and 22, he says, quote,
who anointed us is God. He has also put his seal on us. However, the great crowd is a recipient
of the radiant blessings of the ministry of the new covenant.
Some time ago, the watchtower made a general application in principle to the great crowd.
Just like the anointed have the treasure of the new covenant and its ministry, the great crowd
considers their ministry also a treasure. The great crowd is also determined not to give up in view
of a beautiful hope to live forever in paradise on earth. And all of us, no matter what hope,
have to endure. Paul wrote in 2nd Corinthians chapter 4 verse 8 that we are
hard pressed, some more than others. Please find Psalm 90 verse 10. None of us are exempt from the
pressures that can cause discouragement. And it says there, the span of our life is 70 years,
or 80 if one is especially strong, but they are filled with trouble and sorrow.
They quickly pass by and away we fly. Because of the pressures of life and disappointments,
most of us grow weary at times. But we must remember that God never promised that we would have
a problem-free life in this old system. Even in the first century, God's servants faced
adversities, including persecution and poverty. Jehovah does allow his servants to be tempted and
tested. For the time of the end, he also foretold earthquakes, wars, increased lawlessness,
and pestilences, according to Luke 21, 11. In Revelation, he foretold that a figurative horseman
on the pale horse will kill a large amount of people. This happened for decades now,
but started with a Spanish flu at the end of World War I, where an estimated 500 million were
affected, one third of her mankind of that time, and about 50 million died.
Satan exploits our moments of discouragement, just as a lion takes advantage of an animal when
it is most vulnerable. But we will not give up. We will not give up if others disappoint us.
In Bible times, even the most faithful servants of Jehovah may have felt weighed down at times.
I have grown weary with my siding, wrote David. All night long, I make my couch swim,
with my tears I make my own d'Ivan overflow. Why did David feel that way? Because of all those
showing hostility to me, he explained. The hurtful actions of others cause David such pain of
heart that his tears flowed freely. Still, David did not draw away from Jehovah because of what
fellow humans had done to him. And neither do we. Similarly, the words or actions of others may
cause as much pain of heart. There exists the one speaking thoughtlessly as with the stabs of
swords as Proverbs 12, 18. When the thoughtless one is a Christian brother or sister, the stab wound
can go deep. The human tendency may be to take offense, perhaps harboring resentment.
This is especially true if we feel that we have been treated unkindly or unjustly.
We may find it hard to talk to the offender. We might even deliberately avoid him or her.
Wait down with resentment. Some have given up and have stopped coming to Christian meetings.
How can we avoid playing into the devil's hands when others disappoint or hurt us?
We must try not to harbor resentment. It can hurt us so much that we start suffering from depression.
Instead of giving into depression or aggression, take the initiative to make peace or
settle matters as quickly as possible. Colossians 3, 13 urges us. Continue for giving one another
freely if anyone has a cause for a complaint against another. We do not have to fall prey to Satan.
Jehovah and Jesus are on our side. How can we find encouragement to endure?
Jehovah deeply cares about those who may be discouraged. Acts 17, 27 shows he is not far off from
each one of us. Jehovah comforts and strengths of us through loving brothers and through his spirit
and his word. Reading the Bible daily and meditating upon it helps.
The publications have encouraged us to read the Bible through once a year. Why not make it your
resolve to try such a program? National Dory and anointed brother from Albania who persevered
on the ban said, My goal was to read the Bible for at least one hour each day, which I did for
some 60 years before my eyesight failed. Was he bragging when saying this? No. It helped him not to
give up under the extreme communist dictatorship. We do not necessarily expect you to read the Bible
for one hour each day, but we encourage you to read it through in one year and read it slowly
enough that you can meditate on it. About 20 minutes a day provides ample opportunity to read and
meditate on what you read. If you read so you hear your own voice, it will help you to read
slower and to meditate. We also find encouragement through his organization, things we read in the literature
or magazines, and we greatly benefit from the congregation meetings. We also benefit from
sweet association with our brothers. We live or we are television, so do not give up.
Elders, when they shepherd, are also a big help for many to persevere. Publishers in our
congregation do a lot to strengthen us. According to Hebrews 10.25, it is God's will that we keep
encouraging one another and doing so is more urgent now than ever before. Let us always keep
in mind the inspired words of 2nd Thessalonians 313. For you apart, brothers, do not give up
in doing good. Galatians 6.9 similarly says, quote, let us not give up in doing what is fine,
for in due time we will reap. What do we conclude from this? It is the words of our theme text,
2nd Corinthians 416. We do not give up. Thank you, Brother Loosh. May we all be determined to
follow that scriptural advice and not give up, no matter what we face ahead during these last days.
And we'd like to remind all of you that the concluding segment of the annual meeting
will be posted on February 1st, 2021 right here on JW Broadcasting.